.TH AGENT-OBSERVER 1 "July 2026" "agent-observer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agent-observer \- multi-provider terminal dashboard for local coding agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agent-observer
[\fIflags\fR]
.br
.B agent-observer watch
[\fIflags\fR]
.br
.B agent-observer doctor
[\fIflags\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agent-observer
watches the local state of Claude Code, Codex CLI, Cursor, and manifest-defined providers, derives live session and task status, and renders a terminal operations board that reacts to file changes via fsnotify with a polling safety net.
Observation is read-only toward provider state and never calls model APIs.
With the opt-in \fB--act\fR flag it can also launch, steer, stop, and resume agent runs by executing your installed provider CLIs in managed PTY panes.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B watch
Start the live dashboard in watch mode.
.TP
.B doctor
Validate configuration and print a support report.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B --providers
Comma-separated providers to enable: claude, codex, cursor, plugins. Defaults to all.
.TP
.B --claude-dir
Claude Code state directory. Defaults to ~/.claude.
.TP
.B --codex-dir
Codex CLI state directory. Defaults to ~/.codex.
.TP
.B --cursor-dir
Cursor state directory. Defaults to ~/.cursor.
.TP
.B --plugins-dir
Provider manifest directory. Defaults to ~/.config/agent-observer/providers.
.TP
.B --poll-interval
Safety-net rescan interval behind filesystem watching. Defaults to 5s.
.TP
.B --no-watch
Disable filesystem watching and rely on polling only.
.TP
.B --act
Enable agent actions: launch (n), resume (R), steer, and stop (x) runs via provider CLIs. Disabled by default.
.TP
.B --no-act
Disable agent actions.
.TP
.B --tasks-dir
Claude tasks directory. Defaults to ~/.claude/tasks.
.TP
.B --teams-dir
Claude teams directory. Defaults to ~/.claude/teams.
.TP
.B --max-file-size
Maximum bytes to read per file.
.TP
.B --refresh-interval
TUI refresh interval. Must be between 200ms and 1m.
.TP
.B --dump-json
Dump snapshot JSON and exit.
.TP
.B --dump-text
Dump snapshot text and exit.
.TP
.B --diagnostics
Dump diagnostics JSON and exit.
.TP
.B --focus
Text dump focus: all, active, blocked, or warnings.
.TP
.B --redact
Redact local paths in dump, diagnostics, and doctor output.
.TP
.B --shell
Enable the local shell pane. The shell pane is disabled by default.
.TP
.B --no-shell
Disable the local shell pane. Kept as a compatibility alias for restricted environments.
.TP
.B --log-file
Append structured logs to this file.
.TP
.B --log-level
Log level: debug, info, warn, or error.
.TP
.B --telemetry
Telemetry mode: off or on. Defaults to off.
.TP
.B --telemetry-endpoint
HTTP endpoint for opt-in telemetry events.
.TP
.B --version
Print version metadata and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/agent-observer/config.toml
Optional configuration file. Flags override environment variables, which override this file.
.TP
.B ~/.config/agent-observer/providers/*.toml
Provider manifests: watch globs, session extraction hints, and argv command templates. Trusted local configuration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_PROVIDERS
Default provider selection.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_CLAUDE_DIR, AGENT_OBSERVER_CODEX_DIR, AGENT_OBSERVER_CURSOR_DIR, AGENT_OBSERVER_PLUGINS_DIR
Default provider state directories.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_POLL_INTERVAL
Default safety-net rescan interval.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_NO_WATCH
Disable filesystem watching when set to a true value.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_ACT, AGENT_OBSERVER_NO_ACT
Enable or disable agent actions when set to a true value.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_CONFIG
Alternate path for the configuration file.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_TASKS_DIR
Default tasks directory.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_TEAMS_DIR
Default teams directory.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_MAX_FILE_SIZE
Default maximum file size.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_REFRESH_INTERVAL
Default refresh interval.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_SHELL
Enable the local shell pane when set to a true value.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_NO_SHELL
Disable the local shell pane when set to a true value.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_REDACT
Redact support output when set to a true value.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_LOG_FILE
Default log file.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_LOG_LEVEL
Default log level.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_TELEMETRY
Telemetry mode: off or on.
.TP
.B AGENT_OBSERVER_TELEMETRY_ENDPOINT
HTTP endpoint for opt-in telemetry events.
.SH SECURITY
Session snapshots and diagnostics may include local paths, prompts, message excerpts, warnings, and timing metadata.
Use --redact before sharing output.
Agent actions are disabled by default; with --act the dashboard executes provider CLIs as the invoking user and always displays the exact command line.
Telemetry is disabled by default and must not include task titles, prompts, session text, local paths, active file paths, raw warnings, shell transcript, or dump payloads.
